README.md, before:

# PrivatePDF

PrivatePDF is a free web tool that lets users make quick PDF edits from within their web browser, without uploading anything anywhere.

I created this tool to make it quick and easy to sign PDF contracts, without having to deal with installing programs and without worrying that my PDFs will get uploaded somewhere.

It supports the bare minimum for my most common usecases. It is not intended to be a full-featured PDF editor.

Check it out by either [uploading a PDF of your own](https://photown.github.io/private-pdf/), or [with a preloaded sample PDF](https://photown.github.io/private-pdf/?pdf=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/photown/private-pdf/09b3a899cbce5ba2d5241110e944139d7f7e161a/readme/sample.pdf).

This tool has mainly been tested on desktop Chrome on Windows 11.

## Features

### View PDFs

![<img src="readme/view_pdfs.png">](readme/view_pdfs.png)

### Fill PDF forms

![<img src="readme/fill_forms.png">](readme/fill_forms.png)

### Insert text

![<img src="readme/insert_text.png">](readme/insert_text.png)

### Insert images

![<img src="readme/insert_images.png">](readme/insert_images.png)

### Rotate PDFs

![<img src="readme/rotate_pdf.png">](readme/rotate_pdf.png)

## Future features

- Create your own signature within the tool
- Ability to insert symbols
- Ability to rearrange and insert pages
- Improve UI

## Technologies used

- Written in TypeScript
- Bundled with Webpack
- PDFs rendered using [PDF.js](https://mozilla.github.io/pdf.js/)
- PDFs edited using [pdf-lib](https://github.com/Hopding/pdf-lib)
- Developed on Visual Studio Code
- Code formatted with [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)

## License

PrivatePDF is [MIT licensed](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add build and run instructions

README.md, after:

# PrivatePDF

PrivatePDF is a free web tool that lets users make quick PDF edits from within their web browser, without uploading anything anywhere.

I created this tool to make it quick and easy to sign PDF contracts, without having to deal with installing programs and without worrying that my PDFs will get uploaded somewhere.

It supports the bare minimum for my most common usecases. It is not intended to be a full-featured PDF editor.

Check it out by either [uploading a PDF of your own](https://photown.github.io/private-pdf/), or [with a preloaded sample PDF](https://photown.github.io/private-pdf/?pdf=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/photown/private-pdf/09b3a899cbce5ba2d5241110e944139d7f7e161a/readme/sample.pdf).

This tool has mainly been tested on desktop Chrome on Windows 11.

## Features

### View PDFs

![<img src="readme/view_pdfs.png">](readme/view_pdfs.png)

### Fill PDF forms

![<img src="readme/fill_forms.png">](readme/fill_forms.png)

### Insert text

![<img src="readme/insert_text.png">](readme/insert_text.png)

### Insert images

![<img src="readme/insert_images.png">](readme/insert_images.png)

### Rotate PDFs

![<img src="readme/rotate_pdf.png">](readme/rotate_pdf.png)

## Future features

- Create your own signature within the tool
- Ability to insert symbols
- Ability to rearrange and insert pages
- Improve UI

## Technologies used

- Written in TypeScript
- Bundled with Webpack
- PDFs rendered using [PDF.js](https://mozilla.github.io/pdf.js/)
- PDFs edited using [pdf-lib](https://github.com/Hopding/pdf-lib)
- Developed on Visual Studio Code
- Code formatted with [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)

## Building instructions

1. Clone the repo
2. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies
3. Run `npm run build` to compile the source code into a JS bundle file
4. To use the tool from your browser, start a server from the root project directory, for example by running `python -m http.server` which makes the tool accessible on port 8000.
5. In your browser go to `localhost:8000`

## License

PrivatePDF is [MIT licensed](LICENSE).
